Add guide for setting up Wagtail with S3 (#8)
torchbox/wagtail-storages: README.rst

wagtail-storages
================

This package makes usage of AWS S3 with private documents in Wagtail as good

> as it can get. This package is for you if you want:

Reviewer: I cannot parse this sentence. Would this be roughly equivalent?

> This package maintains Wagtail private documents hosted on S3.
> This package is for you if you want to:

> - Use AWS S3 bucket for hosting Wagtail documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use and AWS S3 bucket to host Wagtail documents.
```

- Put the bucket behind the CDN - why call the bucket directly each time?
- Allow editors to make use of privacy controls on documents, but keep using
  CDN.

> - Getting timeouts because of downloads being proxied through Wagtail views -

Reviewer 2: > This package is for you if you want: [...] Getting timeouts because of downloads being proxied through Wagtail views

sounds weird. Maybe:

" - Avoid timeouts because of downloads proxied through Wagtail views."

Then 
"Note: you cannot use the document [redirect view](https://docs.wagtail.io/en/stable/advanced_topics/settings.html#wagtaildocs-serve-method) if you want your documents to be truly private"

  cannot use redirect view if you want documents to be truly private.

What does it do?
----------------

> The package is a collection of signal handlers and wagtail hooks.

Reviewer 2: `s/wagtail/Wagtail/g`

> - It sets per-object ACLs on S3 whenever there is a change of privacy

Reviewer 2: "..whenever there is a change in a document privacy settings in Wagtail" ?

  settings of a document on Wagtail.

> - Replaces the current document view with a redirect to either a bucket signed

Reviewer 2: "a bucket signed URL" → "a signed S3 bucket URL"?

probably worth making a distinction with https://docs.wagtail.io/en/stable/advanced_topics/settings.html#wagtaildocs-serve-method since you mention

> cannot use redirect view if you want documents to be truly private

  URL for private documents or public custom domain URL for public ones.
- Purges CDN for documents that have changed.

Requirements
------------

> - Using ``django-storages`` with the ``S3Boto3Storage`` storage backend.

Reviewer 2: nitpick: drop "Using"? since it is the "Requirements" sections, not "Requires"

- Using supported CDN by Wagtail front-end cache invalidator.

Management command ``django-admin fix_document_acls``
-----------------------------------------------------

> There's a management command that sets all the documents' ACLs according to the

Reviewer: Could be clearer re origin of the command (scannability)

> The package provides a management command that...

.. code:: python

   WAGTAIL_STORAGES_DOCUMENT_HOOK_ORDER = 900

Recommended S3 setup with Wagtail
---------------------------------

> This is a guide that explains the recommended setup for using S3 with Wagtail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following guide explains the recommended setup for using S3 with Wagtail.
```

This guide assumes that:

> * You serve your main website at ``llamasavers.com``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You serve your main website at ``llamasavers.com`` (replace ``llamasavers.com`` with your actual domain name).
```

* Your S3 bucket is called ``media.llamasavers.com`` and you host it from that
  domain name.

> * Using CDN on that domain, this guide will assume Cloudflare.

Reviewer: > You are using CDN...

> * Using CDN on that domain, this guide will assume Cloudflare.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You are using CDN on that domain. We use Cloudflare as an example.
```

to keep up with the voice of the items above

Set up S3 bucket
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> First step is to set up your S3 bucket. It must be configured to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, set up your S3 bucket. It must be configured to:
```

> * Bucket name must match the domain name, e.g. ``media.llamasavers.com``, that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Have a name that match the domain name, e.g. ``media.llamasavers.com``, that
```

>   you intend using it with.

Reviewer: > to use it with

> * Allow user to perform the following actions on the bucket:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Allow the user to perform the following actions on the bucket:
```

  * ``s3:ListBucket``
  * ``s3:GetBucketLocation``
  * ``s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads``
  * ``s3:ListBucketVersions``

> * Allow user to perform all the actions (``s3:*``) on the objects within the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Allow the user to perform all actions (``s3:*``) on objects within the
```

  bucket.

> * Allow the internet traffic to access Wagtail image renditions (``images/*``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Allow internet traffic to access Wagtail image renditions (``images/*``).
```

Author: Sorry, but no.

Reviewer 2: They are all suggestions, so  take it or leave it 🤷‍♂️

The user permissions can be set in the IAM or via a bucket policy. See example

> of all of those points being achieved with a bucket policy below.

Reviewer: _...with a bucket policy below._ → _in the bucket policy below_

> of all of those points being achieved with a bucket policy below.

Reviewer 2: "See example of all of those points being achieved with a bucket policy below." → "The following example shows all the above being achieved with a bucket policy:"

.. code:: json

   {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "PublicGetObject",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": "*",
                "Action": "s3:GetObject",
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::[BUCKET NAME]/images/*"
            },
            {
                "Sid": "AllowUserManageBucket",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::[USER ARN]"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "s3:ListBucket",
                    "s3:GetBucketLocation",
                    "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads",
                    "s3:ListBucketVersions"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::[BUCKET NAME]"
            },
            {
                "Sid": "AllowUserManageBucketObjects",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::[USER ARN]"
                },
                "Action": "s3:*",
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::[BUCKET NAME]/*"
            }
        ]
    }

> After the bucket is set up, the bucket can be configured in a Wagtail project.

Reviewer: repetition of `bucket`

> After the bucket is set up, it can be configured in a Wagtail project (see below).

> After the bucket is set up, the bucket can be configured in a Wagtail project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the bucket is set up, your Wagtail project can be configured to use it.
```

Set up django-storages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You need to install ``django-storages`` and ``boto3``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install ``django-storages`` and ``boto3``.
```

.. code:: sh

   pip install django-storages[boto3]

Set up your S3 bucket with ``django-storages``. The following code will allow

> configuration with environment variables.

Reviewer 2: "The following code will allow configuration with environment variables." → "The following code allows configuration via environment variables."

.. code:: python

    # settings.py
    import os

    if "AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME" in os.environ:
        # Add django-storages to the installed apps
        INSTALLED_APPS = INSTALLED_APPS + ["storages"]

        # https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#default-file-storage
        DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE = "storages.backends.s3boto3.S3Boto3Storage"

        AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME = os.environ["AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME"]

        # Disables signing of the S3 objects' URLs. When set to True it
        # will append authorization querystring to each URL.
        AWS_QUERYSTRING_AUTH = False

        # Do not allow overriding files on S3 as per Wagtail docs recommendation:
        # https://docs.wagtail.io/en/stable/advanced_topics/deploying.html#cloud-storage

>         # Not having this setting may have consequences in losing files.

Reviewer: > may have consequences such as losing files.

        AWS_S3_FILE_OVERWRITE = False

        # Default ACL for new files should be "private" - not accessible to the
        # public. Images should be made available to public via the bucket policy,

>         # where the documents should use wagtail-storages.

Reviewer: Suggest this comment could be simplified to:

```
# Default ACL for new files should be "private".
# Images will then be explicitly be made public via the bucket policy,
# whereas the documents will use wagtail-storages.
```

Would need to check I haven't missed the point though!

        AWS_DEFAULT_ACL = "private"

>         # We generally use this setting in the production to put the S3 bucket

Reviewer: >  in the production

→ in production

        # behind a CDN using a custom domain, e.g. media.llamasavers.com.
        # https://django-storages.readthedocs.io/en/latest/backends/amazon-S3.html#cloudfront
        if "AWS_S3_CUSTOM_DOMAIN" in os.environ:
            AWS_S3_CUSTOM_DOMAIN = os.environ["AWS_S3_CUSTOM_DOMAIN"]

        # When signing URLs is facilitated, the region must be set, because the
        # global S3 endpoint does not seem to support that. Set this only if

>         # necessary.

Reviewer: I realise the following is a bit repetitive, but i thought it would be helpful to be more explicit.

```
# When signing URLs is enabled, the region must be set.
# The global S3 endpoint does not seem to support signed URLS.
# Set this only if you will be using signed urls.
```

In the above, is:
 
> is enabled

then accurate/descriptive?

        if "AWS_S3_REGION_NAME" in os.environ:
            AWS_S3_REGION_NAME = os.environ["AWS_S3_REGION_NAME"]

        # This settings lets you force using http or https protocol when generating
        # the URLs to the files. Set https as default.
        # https://github.com/jschneier/django-storages/blob/10d1929de5e0318dbd63d715db4bebc9a42257b5/storages/backends/s3boto3.py#L217
        AWS_S3_URL_PROTOCOL = os.environ.get("AWS_S3_URL_PROTOCOL", "https:")

You can set the following environment variables to configure your bucket if you

> used the above snippet.

Reviewer 2: "If you use the above snippet, you can set the following environment variables:"

* ``AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME`` - set to ``media.llamasavers.com``.
* ``AWS_S3_CUSTOM_DOMAIN`` - set to ``media.llamasavers.com``.
* ``AWS_S3_REGION_NAME`` - set to your AWS region name, e.g. ``eu-west-2``.

You can use one of the methods to provide `boto3 with credentials`__. E.g. to

> use environment variables, you need to set the following variables:

Reviewer: Link and use case for env vars is not clear - alternative:
```
You can use one of `these methods`__ to provide boto3 with credentials.
If using environment variables, you need to set the following:
```

> use environment variables, you need to set the following variables:

Reviewer 2: Needs rewriting, but nothing good comes to mind.

maybe "You can use one the methods described in the <boto3 docs> to provide credentials. e.g. [...]"

* ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID``
* ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY``

.. _Boto3Credentials: https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/guide/configuration.html

__ Boto3Credentials_

> Now the storage should be configured and working, e.g. editors should be able to

Reviewer: _e.g._ → _i.e._

Or just a new sentence?

upload images and documents in Wagtail admin.

Set up ``wagtail-storages``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install ``wagtail-storages`` itself.

.. code:: sh

   pip install wagtail-storages

Add ``wagtail_storages`` to your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` in your settings file.

.. code:: python

   # settings.py

   INSTALLED_APPS = [
       # ... Other apps
       "wagtail_storages",
       # ... Other apps
   ]

> With having that set up that, ACLs should be updated if documents are moved to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With that, ACLs should be updated if documents are moved to
```

private collections.

Set up front-end cache invalidation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If edge cache is set up on the custom domain, ``media.llamasavers.com``, the CDN

Reviewer: brackets rather than commas preserves flow

> custom domain, ``media.llamasavers.com``, the CDN
→
custom domain (``media.llamasavers.com``), the CDN

> purge should be set up to avoid having outdated or private documents available

Reviewer 2: "the CDN purge should be set up to avoid" → "you should set up CDN purging to avoid"

to users via the CDN endpoint. For example, for Cloudflare you want to use a
configuration similar to the one below:

.. code:: python

   # settings.py
   import os

   if "S3_CACHE_CLOUDFLARE_TOKEN" in os.environ:
        WAGTAIL_STORAGES_DOCUMENTS_FRONTENDCACHE = {
            "default": {
                "BACKEND": "wagtail.contrib.frontend_cache.backends.CloudflareBackend",
                "EMAIL": os.environ["S3_CACHE_CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL"],
                "TOKEN": os.environ["S3_CACHE_CLOUDFLARE_TOKEN"],
                "ZONEID": os.environ["S3_CACHE_CLOUDFLARE_ZONEID"],
            },
        }

> Then setup the following environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then set the following environment variables:
```

* ``S3_CACHE_CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL``
* ``S3_CACHE_CLOUDFLARE_TOKEN``
* ``S3_CACHE_CLOUDFLARE_ZONEID``

> By having this set up, the documents will be purged from cache when they are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once set up, documents will be purged from cache when they are
```

modified or their privacy settings have changed.

The setting follows configuration format of Wagtail's module -
``wagtail.contrib.frontend_cache``. See the details `here`__. The only

> difference is the setting name.

Reviewer 2: "The front-end caching invalidation settings follow the `wagtail.contrib.frontend_cache`` Wagtail `module format`__."

?

.. _WagtailFrontEndCache: https://docs.wagtail.io/en/stable/reference/contrib/frontendcache.html

> __ WagtailFrontEndCache_

Reviewer: You could put a final message at the bottom, to the effect of 'All done!'

Obvs not a requirement :)
